---
title: Guide to Data Onboarding for WattCarbon Users
nav: Onboarding Guide
order: 1
---

## Introduction

WattCarbon provides measurement and verification (M\&V), an asset registry, and a system of record for tracking EAC (Energy Attribute Certificate) ownership. EACs reflect the environmental and economic externalities associated with energy projects, in particular the reduction of carbon emissions. 

In order to accurately credit environmental impacts, WattCarbon performs M\&V on energy projects. This M\&V requires proof of impact, namely data from the project that will substantiate the carbon reduction claim. To facilitate data transfer, WattCarbon provides an API endpoint to its users. 

## Basic Terminology

**EAC** - Energy Attribute Certificate. The goal of the data onboarding process is to gather information about both your assets _and_ the _hourly savings generated by those assets_. With these two broad categories of information, WattCarbon can mint EACs.

**Asset** - Synonymous with "Device". The term describing the energy intervention that results in EACs, such as a solar panel, battery, demand response event, or whole building that underwent an energy efficiency upgrade.

**Methodology** - The M\&V approach that was utilized to determine the hourly savings generated by the Asset. As part of the data onboarding process, you will need to either provide an M\&V plan that allows WattCarbon to perform one of [OpenEAC Alliance](https://www.openeac.org/) approved methodologies on your behalf.

**Minting** - The process of creating the actual EAC (Energy Attribute Certificate). This happens ex post as actual energy savings are calculated from a deployed asset.

---

Answers to common questions about some of our terminology can be found in our [FAQ](https://wattcarbon.com/faq).

## Step One - Data Provider Connections/Meter Loading

The WattCarbon API allows you to connect to one of our existing data providers. We currently have integrations with several providers, including Bayou Energy and UtilityAPI. The quickest way to get data on the platform is to use one of these integrations.

If instead you have manual spreadsheets, you will need to use our API to upload that data to the platform. See the Developer Guide for more information.

## Step Two - Asset Uploading

The WattCarbon API provides endpoints for bulk asset uploading. Before choosing an endpoint, you should determine what _kind_ of Asset or Assets you intend to upload.

The six broad asset categories are:

1. Solar
2. Storage
3. Electrification
4. Demand Response
5. Energy Efficiency
6. EV Charging

The fields required at the asset level will vary based on type of asset. The [CreateDevice](https://api.wattcarbon.com/#tag/Assets/operation/create_device_devices_post) endpoint can be used to create individual assets, and this page allows you to toggle to the asset kind to see changing required fields based on asset kind.

If you prefer, you can also use the bulk [CreateDevices](https://api.wattcarbon.com/#tag/Assets/operation/create_devices_devices_csv_post) endpoint to upload an array of assets that are of the same kind via a CSV file. For details on this approach please contact us.

## Step Three - Create Hourly Measurements

WattCarbon will run M&V based on the methodology that you selected during asset creation. These results will be available in the platform. They can further be accessed via the API for a fee.

## Step Four - Mint EACs

Once Assets and Asset Level Hourly Savings are available, WattCarbon can "mint" the EACs for you and either automatically allocate them to designated recipients or deposit them into your account.

## Questions?

For any additional questions about the data onboarding process, WEATS Marketplace, or WattCarbon in general, please do not hesitate to contact us at <support@wattcarbon.com> or check out our [FAQ](https://wattcarbon.com/faq).

