# Guide to Data Onboarding for WattCarbon Users

## Introduction

WattCarbon provides measurement and verification (M\&V), an asset registry, and a system of record for tracking EAC (Energy Attribute Certificate) ownership. EACs reflect the environmental and economic externalities associated with energy projects, in particular the reduction of carbon emissions. 

In order to accurately credit environmental impacts, WattCarbon performs M\&V on energy projects. This M\&V requires proof of impact, namely data from the project that will substantiate the carbon reduction claim. To facilitate data transfer, WattCarbon provides an API endpoint to its users. 

## Basic Terminology

**EAC** - Energy Attribute Certificate. The goal of the data onboarding process is to gather information about both your devices _and_ the _hourly savings generated by those devices_. With these two broad categories of information, WattCarbon can mint EACs.

**Device** - Synonymous with "Asset". The term describing the energy intervention that results in EACs, such as a solar panel, battery, demand response event, or whole building that underwent an energy efficiency upgrade.

**Methodology** - The M\&V approach that was utilized to determine the hourly savings generated by the Device. As part of the data onboarding process, you will need to either provide an M\&V plan that allows WattCarbon to perform one of [OpenEAC Alliance](https://www.openeac.org/) approved methodologies on your behalf.

**Minting** - The process of creating the actual EAC (Energy Attribute Certificate). This happens ex post as actual energy savings are calculated from a deployed asset.

---

Answers to common questions about some of our terminology can be found in our [FAQ](https://wattcarbon.com/faq).

## Step One - Device Uploading

The WattCarbon API provides endpoints for bulk device uploading. Before choosing an endpoint, you should determine what _kind_ of Device or Devices you intend to upload.

The six broad device categories are:

1. Solar
2. Storage
3. Electrification
4. Demand Response
5. Energy Efficiency
6. EV Charging

The fields required at the device level will vary based on type of device. The [CreateDevice](https://docs.wattcarbon.com/docs/wattcarbon/4339aebb3db1a-create-device) endpoint can be used to create individual devices, and this page allows you to toggle to the device kind to see changing required fields based on device kind.

If you prefer, you can also use the bulk [CreateDevices](https://docs.wattcarbon.com/docs/wattcarbon/bc619ccedbe2d-create-devices) endpoint to upload an array of devices that are of the same kind via a CSV file. For details on this approach please contact us.

Optional: Upload time-series data. The methodology will determine the specific [requirements](https://docs.wattcarbon.com/docs/wattcarbon/dd24db62819b9-upload-device-timeseries) for a csv. 

## Step Two - Create Hourly Savings

In order for WattCarbon to do create hourly savings, you will need an approved M\&V plan. Depending on the _kind_ of Device determined in Step One _combined with_ the methodology chosen, there will be additional data requirements.

For example - if you are looking to create EACs from Solar devices and wish to have WattCarbon handle the M\&V via "Directly Metered Solar" methodology, you would need to provide the relevant time series solar generation data. If you have questions about WattCarbon calculated M\&V requirements, please contact us so we can set up a data onboarding call with you.

## Step Three - Mint EACs

Once Devices and Device Level Hourly Savings are available, WattCarbon will "mint" the EACs for you and either automatically allocate them to designated recipients or deposit them into your account.

## Questions?

For any additional questions about the data onboarding process, WEATS Marketplace, or WattCarbon in general, please do not hesitate to contact us at <support@wattcarbon.com> or check out our [FAQ](https://wattcarbon.com/faq).

